I mentioned before that there is also
another app that is Chromium-based and
that's freezing detection.
So the Page Lifecycle API it's okay, okay?
But it's also been fire
when we are getting out of
the app because we are going
to another website.
It's also been Firefox when
you put another window on top.
So can we be more specific
about saving data only
if my app is actually
going to be suspended?
Well, we have this API,
it's called the Page Lifecycle API and
it's only available on Chromium-browsers.
This feels weird but
even on Android sometimes the API is not
working where it's actually more useful.
So this API works for
sure on Chrome on desktop.
But now you're thinking,
do we have suspension on desktop?
That's interesting, right?
So can we actually discard a tab?
I will show you in
a second how that works.
On Chrome I'm not sure if
you have ever seen that URL.
Well, it's time for
doing that for the first time.
So if you open Chrome and
you go to Chrome discards,
you will see something like this.
It's not a nice UI, it's not the best
UI that you will see in Chrome.
What's the idea?
I can open different UIs,
different URLs here like Twitter and
many others and
you will see here all your tabs.
Let me increase the font size.
So here you will see this is for debugging
purposes only, it's not for the end user.
You will see all your current tabs, okay?
The current visibility state, okay?
So that's the page visibility API,
the loading state,
and the lifecycle state,
and discard count.
Actually in Google Chrome
tabs can be discarded.
It's only on very special situations for
example,
here to test this we have
some links here at the top.
For example,
we can click here urgent discard
a tab now is like I need memory now.
So if I click here it will just take
one of the tabs that are not seen so
one of the hidden tabs, and
it will discard the tab, okay?
So let's try it.
I click it there and
it seems like, here it is.
Now I have this urgent
discard link on both.
I can select which one they wanna discard.
So I can discard this one.
So now that tab is discarded.
How do I know?
You don't actually know as a user but
if I go back,
let's do that with Twitter as well.
So now both are discarded.
If I go back to that tab that
tab will reload because it
wasn't actually loaded,
it was discarded, okay?
So this happens on desktop
only on low memory situations,
on memory pressure, RAM pressure.
In that case when you have 80 tabs
open there will be a couple that will
be discarded by Chrome.
Other browsers such as Brave,
they are more aggressive with this.
And they discard tabs more often
than Google Chrome itself.
Makes sense?
There is another extension
as well available,
the extension, okay?
It's here it's called
the greater discarder, okay?
So with the greater discarder
you can even pin this so
actually if I pin this,
let's pin the greater discarder.
You can go to your tab and
click discard this tab.
And what will happen is that it will
change tabs so that it can discard it.
So actually we can
discard tabs on desktop.
And we have a way in Chrome only or
Chromium based browsers
only to know that that's happening or
that that happened.
The event is called freeze, okay?
So freeze means this is your last dinner.
This is your last
opportunity to save data.
This tab is about to freeze so
that means you
won't be able to execute code after this.
So then you save data.
Remember that the other operation
can happen in two ways.
When the user is going back to your app
maybe your app is still in memory or
maybe your app was discarded,
you don't know.